Welcome back everybody in this section.
We are going to talk about a big feature overreact called hooks now hooks is a new feature that was
introduced in February of 20 19 with react sixteen point eight hooks is a really really interesting
feature especially on its impact in the rap community.
It aims to replace the way that we write certain components as well as how we write our applications.
That is a little different from how we've currently written our components and code.
Up until now it is important that I mentioned though that right now the community is very divided on
how to use hooks and whether or not they're actually worth replacing and to what extent to replace our
existing applications code with hooks related code.
I we'll talk about all of that while we actually learn how to use hooks but before we apply and convert
our crown clothing application over to using some hooks we're going to test and play around with the
base hooks first so we understand what they do and how to use them because they do have a bit of caveats
to them that we've got to understand before we start replacing our code base with these hooks so in
this little quick test create react at Black location.
We have just this basic component that has a header with a name value and then a button that when clicked
should set this value to something else.
In this case Andre.
Now this functionality is not in yet but we need to explore how we would do this using a non hooked
approach in order for us to understand how hooks differ in how we use them.
So let's go to the application now.
Normally all we do if we were to solve this using the RAC code that we're comfortable with is we would
use something like a class component where we would set an internal state of name to the value of what
we would display that name.
And then when we click our button we simply call this dot set state and we change name to the value
that we want.
In this case Andre The thing is though that this class component is clunky higher than a functional
component that we would write.
But this is the only type of component that we can use if we wanted to leverage internal state in our
components.
A lot of the react core team that built the hooks API we're thinking and getting feedback from the community
that cross components and their lifecycle methods particularly are kind of confusing because of how
we have to determine the order in which these lifecycle methods are going to fire right.
We don't know where we should be doing different functionality of our component in what lifecycle method
depending on the kind of feature that you're building.
It actually becomes very confusing about which lifecycle methods to use and then the fact that we're
keeping track of state and how state triggers render.
It's all things that a lot of developers struggle with.
So the REACT team thought well maybe there's a way for us to simplify this and their solution was hooks.
So that's the thing to understand about hooks hooks is a way for us to write functional components but
gain access to new functionality that was previously only available to us if we wrote class component
so that's the big caveat we cannot use hooks inside of class components.
We can only use them inside a functional component and we only have access to hooks again if we're running
reactive versions sixteen point eight or higher if you join a project that uses an older version of
react.
Unfortunately you won't have access to hooks but it's still important to learn because the community
and the react core team as a whole are saying that folks are here to stay
in order for us to use hooks we have to import them in from the react library and there's actually two
main hooks we're gonna look at the first hook we're gonna look at is the use state hook and we import
it like so now you state is exactly like it sounds it allows are functional components to have access
to internal state features that we could only leverage before using class components and the way that
you state works is that it is a function that gets a parameter.
But before we explore what that parameter is we got to know what you state gives us back you state gives
us back a array with two values in it and in order for us to understand these two values we will actually
need to first explore array D structuring.
So if you've not heard of array structuring it's very similar to object structuring that we're completely
familiar with now let's say we have an example of some array which is equal to an array of three numbers
if we wanted to set each of those elements in this array to a constant variable that we have access
to in our application we can use what's called array D structuring and set them like this so very similar
to the syntax of our object structuring and then pointing to an object to cast that object's properties
as our cost.
We do this in the order inside of square brackets that we want the cost variables to point to in their
respective positions of the array we're pointing to.
So if we type this we'll see that a now equals one B now equals 2.
What's and C now equals 3.
So this is pretty much already structuring.
It just allows us to set variables inside of this square bracket to certain elements in an array.
Now you state gives us back to parameters inside of our array.
So we d structure these two things that we get back.
The first one is going to be the state value itself that we're trying to set.
Now we can name this whatever we want right but it's pretty much going to be the variable that we want
our state to hold.
So here for example in the context of our application we're trying to set a name so I'm going to call
it name.
The second thing we get back from you state is a function that allows us to set this property and this
property I'm going to call set name.
So typically we want to be very explicit about what these two cost that we're getting back will be.
Now what we pass into you state is going to be the value that we want the initial value of this state
to be.
So for example we're trying to set a string.
I'm just going to set you state and the initial value to a string value of equal and now I'm actually
able to use these values inside of my component and this one now equal that state value.
And if I wanted to change that value I simply just call our new set.
Name feature and then pass it the value I want to change this name value too.
So now I can just set it to Andre.
This is equivalent to this.
It's the same thing.
The only main difference is that now we have a functional component that is leveraging this internal
state.
And we'll see that when I click my button.
It does change the state of my new functional component.
The thing about you state here is that typically if we had multiple values we would have to put them
all into the same state object and then we would.
For example if I also wanted an address I would have to do it like this and then if I needed to set
the state of this address right I would make a for example just another button and this would be set
dress and what I would have to do is manually still just change the object value that I'm trying to
point to in this state.
But I would still be calling the same set state.
The difference now is that we're able to use this you state hook as many times as we want to instantiate
new values and new set of functions for our state.
So if I wanted to duplicate that feature in our functional component I would just make a new use state
hook and say set address here and set this to Amsterdam and then I would simply use the new set address
and change this value
and get the same functionality.
In fact it's preferred that we use more set states and break apart are states that we're trying to store
on our components rather than for example store really deeply nested objects and that is a recommendation
but not necessarily something that the REACT team is enforcing.
But it's a thing to keep in mind regarding how we use that you state hook but it's a pretty simple hook.
In fact all the hooks are pretty simple to use.
There's just caveats about how to use them.
But the you state one is definitely the most simple.
If we wanted to set more states we're totally able to do so right.
Just calling you state as many times as we need to to set new values as well as their own set of functions
but this is the main thing about the you state hook.
It just gives our functional components access to the state features that we had before on a class component
and the times when we would use this you state hook is if we were trying to build a feature or a component
that needed local state inside of its component but it didn't need any lifecycle method.
That's the main time we would use the you state now in our next lesson.
We are going to explore the next hook which is the use of fact hook and that one actually tackles using
component lifecycle methods or similar implementations to lifecycle methods from our classes into functional
components.
So let's tackle that one.